Overhaul Treasury Docs (#1120)
moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam-docs: learn/features/treasury.md

The [Treasury Council](https://forum.moonbeam.network/g/TreasuryCouncil){target=\_blank} oversees spending of the Moonbeam Treasury and votes on funding proposals. It comprises two members from the Moonbeam Foundation and three external, community members. The three external members are elected to terms of {{ networks.moonbeam.treasury.months_elected }} months. The same Treasury Council oversees Treasury requests for both Moonbeam and Moonriver. The Council meets monthly to review proposals submitted on the [Moonbeam Forum](https://forum.moonbeam.network/c/governance/Treasury-proposals/8){target=\_blank}. Once a proposal is agreed upon, the Council members must complete the on-chain approval process.

## General Definitions {: #general-definitions }

Some important terminology to understand in regard to treasuries:

- **Treasury Council** — a group consisting of Moonbeam Foundation representatives and external, community members. The Council reviews funding proposals, ensures alignment with the community, and ultimately authorizes Treasury spending
- **Proposal** — a plan or suggestion to further the network that is put forth by stakeholders to be approved by the Treasury Council

> --8<-- 'text/learn/features/treasury/treasury-addresses-path.md'

Reviewer: I don't think it makes much sense to have the addresses under "General Definitions"

> ## Treasury Council Voting Process {: #Treasury-council-voting-process }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Treasury Council Voting Process {: #treasury-council-voting-process }
```

> A member of the Treasury Council will submit a `treasury.spend` call. This call requires specifying the amount, the asset type, and the beneficiary account to receive the funds. The Treasury supports spending various token types beyond GLMR, including native USDT/USDC. Once this extrinsic is submitted, it creates a new Treasury Council collective proposal containing the specified spending information, and is available for members of the council to vote on. Once approved through the Treasury Council's internal voting process, the funds can be released to the beneficiary account through the `treasury.payout` extrinsic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A member of the Treasury Council will submit a `treasury.spend` call. This call requires specifying the amount, the asset type, and the beneficiary account to receive the funds. The Treasury supports spending various token types beyond GLMR, including native USDT/USDC. Once this extrinsic is submitted, a new Treasury Council collective proposal containing the specified spending information will be created and available for council members to vote on. Once approved through the Treasury Council's internal voting process, the funds will be released automatically to the beneficiary account through the `treasury.payout` extrinsic.
```

---
title: Treasury
description: Moonbeam has an on-chain Treasury controlled by Treasury Council members, enabling stakeholders to submit proposals to further the network.
---

# Treasury on Moonbeam

## Introduction {: #introduction }

> The Moonbeam Treasury is an on-chain collection of funds launched at the network's genesis. The Treasury was pre-funded with 0.5% of the total token supply at network launch and accumulates GLMR steadily as {{ networks.moonbeam.inflation.parachain_bond_Treasury }}% of the parachain bond reserve inflation goes to the Treasury. The Moonbeam Treasury is intended to help fund key projects that help maintain and further the growth of the Moonbeam network.

Reviewer 2: the variable here is not rendering correctly `{{ networks.moonbeam.inflation.parachain_bond_Treasury }}`.

You have `{{ networks.moonbeam.inflation.parachain_bond_inflation }}` or `{{ networks.moonbeam.inflation.parachain_bond_treasury }}` But I think you need to be clear that 80% of the yearly 1.5% of inflation goes to treasury

---
title: Treasury
description: As a Polkadot parachain, Moonbeam has an on-chain treasury controlled by treasury council members, enabling stakeholders to submit proposals to further the network.
---

# Treasury on Moonbeam

## Introduction {: #introduction }

> The Moonbeam Treasury is an on-chain collection of funds launched at the network's genesis. The Treasury was pre-funded with 0.5% of the total token supply at network launch and accumulates GLMR steadily as {{ networks.moonbeam.inflation.parachain_bond_treasury }}% of the Parachain bond reserve inflation goes to the Treasury. The Moonbeam Treasury is intended to help fund key projects that help maintain and further the growth of the Moonbeam network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Moonbeam Treasury is an on-chain collection of funds launched at the network's genesis. The Treasury was pre-funded with 0.5% of the total token supply at network launch and accumulates GLMR steadily as {{ networks.moonbeam.inflation.parachain_bond_treasury }}% of the parachain bond reserve inflation goes to the Treasury. The Moonbeam Treasury is intended to help fund key projects that help maintain and further the growth of the Moonbeam network.
```

The Treasury allows stakeholders to submit spending proposals to be reviewed and voted on by the Treasury Council. These spending proposals should include initiatives to boost network engagement. Some network initiatives could include funding integrations or collaborations, community events, network outreach, and more. The principal responsibility of a treasury spend proposer is to craft the proposal and submit to the Moonbeam Forum. To submit a treasury proposal, see the instructions for [submitting a treasury spend](/tokens/governance/treasury-spend/){target=\_blank}.

> The [Treasury Council](https://forum.moonbeam.network/g/TreasuryCouncil){target=\_blank} oversees spending of the Moonbeam treasury and votes on funding proposals. It comprises two members from the Moonbeam Foundation and three external, independent members. The same treasury council oversees treasury requests for both Moonbeam and Moonriver. The Council meets periodically to review proposals submitted on the [Moonbeam Forum](https://forum.moonbeam.network/c/governance/treasury-proposals/8){target=\_blank}. Once a proposal is agreed upon, the Council members must complete the on-chain approval process.

Reviewer 2: I would highlight that the 3 members of the treasury council external to the MBF are elected via on-chain governance every X amount of time (make it a variable and ask Lina what is the current term)

## General Definitions {: #general-definitions }

Some important terminology to understand in regard to treasuries:

> - **Treasury council** — a group consisting of Moonbeam Foundation representatives and external, independent members. The Council reviews funding proposals, ensures alignment with the community, and ultimately authorizes treasury spending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Treasury Council** — a group consisting of Moonbeam Foundation representatives and external, independent members. The Council reviews funding proposals, ensures alignment with the community, and ultimately authorizes treasury spending
```

- **Proposal** — a plan or suggestion to further the network that is put forth by stakeholders to be approved by the Treasury Council

## Treasury Council {: #treasury-council }

The Treasury Council oversees spending of the Moonbeam treasury and votes on funding proposals. It comprises two members from the Moonbeam Foundation and three external, independent members. The same treasury council oversees treasury requests for both Moonbeam and Moonriver. The Council meets periodically to review proposals submitted on the [Moonbeam Forum](https://forum.moonbeam.network/c/governance/treasury-proposals/8){target=\_blank}. Once a proposal is agreed upon, the Council members must complete the on-chain approval process. 

### Treasury Council Voting Process {: #treasury-council-voting-process }

> A member of the Treasury Council must first open [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fwss.api.moonbeam.network#/explorer){target=\_blank}  and navigate to the **Extrinsics** tab. From there, the treasury council member will submit a `treasury.spend` call. This call requires specifying the amount (for example, 1,000 GLMR) and the beneficiary account to receive the funds. Once this extrinsic is submitted, it creates a new Treasury Council collective proposal containing the specified spending information. Other members of the treasury council vote on the proposal with the `treasuryCouncilCollective.vote` extrinsic by providing a hash to the proposal, the proposal index, and aye/nay boolean to approve. Finally, a member of the treasury council closes the vote with the `treasuryCouncilCollective.close` extrinsic.

Reviewer: Might be nice to see this broken up into sequential steps of the process

> A member of the Treasury Council must first open [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fwss.api.moonbeam.network#/explorer){target=\_blank}  and navigate to the **Extrinsics** tab. From there, the treasury council member will submit a `treasury.spend` call. This call requires specifying the amount (for example, 1,000 GLMR) and the beneficiary account to receive the funds. Once this extrinsic is submitted, it creates a new Treasury Council collective proposal containing the specified spending information. Other members of the treasury council vote on the proposal with the `treasuryCouncilCollective.vote` extrinsic by providing a hash to the proposal, the proposal index, and aye/nay boolean to approve. Finally, a member of the treasury council closes the vote with the `treasuryCouncilCollective.close` extrinsic.

Reviewer 2: Agreed - I don't think we need to ever mention the steps of the treasury council tbh. I would just explain the process at a high level (I would include the `treasury.spend` and mention that this allows the treasury to hold tokens besides GLMR (native USDT/USDC)

Note that this process has changed significantly from prior treasury processes, where tokenholders could submit treasury proposals with bonds attached. Now, no on-chain action is necessary to receive a treasury proposal - rather, all that is needed is to raise a treasury council request on the [Moonbeam Forum](https://forum.moonbeam.network/c/governance/treasury-proposals/8){target=\_blank} and the treasury council will take care of the on-chain component to process a treasury spend if the proposal is approved.

### The Happy Path of a Treasury Spend Request {: #the-happy-path-of-a-treasury-spend-request }

The happy path of a treasury spend request is as follows:

1. **Proposal Submission** - The user submits a proposal to the [Moonbeam Forum](https://forum.moonbeam.network/c/governance/treasury-proposals/8){target=\_blank}

2. **Forum Discussion** - The proposal is discussed by the community on the Forum. The ultimate yay/nay decision is determined by the treasury council

3. **Treasury Approval & Action** - If the Treasury Council agrees, it authorizes the treasury spending and moves the process forward

### After the Treasury Council Approval

> The final step in the treasury spend request flow is for the `treasury.payout` extrinsic to be called. This may be called by anyone after the treasury council has approved the spend on-chain by providing the index of the treasury spend approved. For more information on submitting a treasury spend proposal, see the instructions for [submitting a treasury spend](/tokens/governance/treasury-spend/){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: I'm unsure if they have to submit the `treasury.payout` I'm confirming
